1. The difference between an Elastic Block Store (EBS) and a Storage Service (S3) has to do with their data storage structure. Used with an Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), an EBS is an instance-independent hard drive that separates the data it stores from the instance. This is a highly useful (and safe) feature because it helps preserve the data if an instance were to fail. In contrast, a S3 is a web-based object storage facility that does not have to be used with an EC2 to readily store, retrieve, and archive data. 

2. Cloud infrastructure should be considered for data science tasks when access to and use of many or large servers is required. Because identifying, purchasing, and configuring (physical) servers can be very expensive and time-consuming, a cloud infrastructure grants users access to (virtual) servers quickly and efficiently at a reasonable price. It also provides great flexibility by allowing users to easily increase or reduce stoarge capacity. A cloud infrastructure streamlines data science tasks and enables organizations to operate with more efficiency. 

3. The difference between spot instances and reserved instances has to do with their pricing systems and workload-specific durations. Spot instances and reserved instances are different types of EC2 instances that seek to provide compute capacity in a cost-effective way. For spot instances, a user “bids” for a spot instance (they set the price they are willing to pay) and “wins” the instance (allowed to use the instance) when the bid price exceeds the instance price. However, because a spot instance price can change with time due to supply and demand, a spot instance performance is interrupted when the bid price no longer exceeds the instance price (or if it is terminated). Spot instances may thus be more appropriate for shorter-term workloads that can tolerate interruptions or have flexible start and end dates.

In contrast, reserved instances are not marked by time-dependent price fluctuations and are not subject to performance interruptions. For reserved instances, a user can purchase a reserved instance at a fixed price that is determined by instance attribute, term commitment, and payment option. A reserved instance is purchased for 1 or 3 years and allows users to specify and adjust capacity reservations during that time. For example, when workload requirements change, a reserved instance provides users with the flexibility (without additional charge) to modify various features of their capacity reservations. Thus, unlike spot instances, reserved instances may be more appropriate for longer-term workloads whose capacity requirements may be more predictable.

4. iPython, pgxl development tools, Hadoop, and Streamparse
